What is Neo4j ?

Neo4j is a native graph database, which means that it implements a true graph model all the way down to the storage level.
Instead of using a "graph abstraction" on top of another technology, the data is stored in Neo4j in the same way you may whiteboard your ideas.

What is a graph database ?

A Neo4j graph database stores data as nodes, relationships, and properties instead of in tables or documents.
This means you can organize your data in a similar way as when sketching ideas on a whiteboard.
And since graph databases are not restricted to a pre-defined model, you can take more flexible approaches and strategies when working with them.

How it works ?

Graph databases are structured through nodes and relationships.

- Nodes are entities in the graph which can:

1. Be tagged with labels representing their different roles in a domain (e.g., Person).
2. Hold any number of key-value pairs as properties (e.g., name).
3. Be indexed and bound by constraints (similar to relational databases).

- Relationships provide named connections between two nodes (e.g., Person - DRIVES - Vehicle) and they:

1. Must always have a start node, an end node, and exactly one type.
2. Must have a direction.
3. Can have properties, like nodes.

Nodes can have multiple relationships of various types without sacrificing performance.

Why graph databases are used ?
- In relational databases, references to other rows and tables are indicated by referring to primary key attributes via foreign key columns.
- Joins are computed at query time by matching primary and foreign keys of all rows in the connected tables. 
- These operations are compute-heavy and memory-intensive and have an exponential cost.
- When many-to-many relationships occur in the model, you must introduce a JOIN table (or associative entity table) that holds 
  foreign keys of both the participating tables, further increasing join operation costs.

This is how graph databases were born. They were designed to provide the greatest advantage in the connected world we live in today.

Cypher Query :
Cypher, Neo4j’s declarative graph query language, is built on the basic concepts and clauses of SQL but has a lot of additional 
graph-specific functionality to make it easy to work with your graph model.

SQL STATEMENT :
SELECT name FROM Person
LEFT JOIN Person_Department
  ON Person.Id = Person_Department.PersonId
LEFT JOIN Department
  ON Department.Id = Person_Department.DepartmentId
WHERE Department.name = "IT Department"

CYPHER STATEMENT:
MATCH (p:Person)-[:WORKS_AT]->(d:Dept)
WHERE d.name = "IT Department"
RETURN p.name

About the Task :

I have created a simple example of how Instagram data might look-like in a graph database 
where we have a Node as Person with only one property as its name and one type of relationship i.e FOLLOWS
Ex : Ram follows Shyam 

